.TH "lrsscripts" "5" "2022.02.15" "February 2022" "lrslib 7.2"
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" * Define some portability stuff
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.\" http://bugs.debian.org/507673
.\" http://lists.gnu.org/archive/html/groff/2009-02/msg00013.html
.\" ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.ie \n(.g .ds Aq \(aq
.el       .ds Aq '
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" * set default formatting
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" * MAIN CONTENT STARTS HERE *
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.SS "Name"
lrsscripts: some (fragile) shell functions to perform common 
lrslib operations. \fIcaveat emptor\fR \&!
.SS "Synopsis"
.HP 
\fBmfel\fR \fIinput-file [output-file [procs ] ]\fR
.HP
\fBmlrs\fR\ \fIinput-file [output-file [procs [cptime [cpindex] ] ]\fR
.HP 
\fBplotV|plotR\fR
\fIlrs-output-file [maxdepth [maxcobases] ]\fR
.HP 
\fBplotL\fR [\fIhistogram-file\fR] 
.HP
\fBprojred\fR \fI[-solver SMT-solver] ine-file [output file]\fR

.SS "Description"

\fBmfel\fR:
multiprocessor version of \fBfel(1)\fR which performs multiple rounds of Fourier-Motzkin elimination
as specified in either a project or eliminate option in the input file. \fBmplrs\fR
performs only one iteration and terminates. \fIprocs\fR (if specified) is the number of processors to use (assigned according to the default-hostfile),
otherwise all available processors on the current machine are used.

\fBmlrs\fR:
simple interface to \fBmplrs(1)\fR that is similar to \fBlrs(1)\fR and 
in addition does automatic checkpoint/restart
for long runs.
\fIprocs\fR (if specified) is the number of processors to use
(assigned according to the default-hostfile),
otherwise all available processors on the current machine are used.
\fIcptime\fR (if specified) is the time in seconds until a checkpoint/restart is made, default 86400 secs (1 day). 
Checkpoint data is written into a file named input-file.cpN, where N=0,1,2,... is assigned
consecutively. \fBcpindex\fR (if specified) is a valid value of N and causes a restart from
checkpoint file input-file.cpN.
Other \fBmplrs(1)\fR command line parameters are default values.

\fBplotV\fR(requires \fBgnuplot\fR be installed): 
produces a PDF file named <lrs-output-file>V.pdf that gives a plot of each vertex or facet
along with its height in the reverse search tree. 
\fIlrs-output-file\fR should be an \fBlrs/mplrs\fR output file produced when the \fIprintcobasis\fR
is included in the input file for the run.

\fBplotR\fR(requires \fBgnuplot\fR be installed): performs a similar task 
to \fBplotV\fR for cones producing the file
<lrs-output-file>H.pdf where the height of each ray is plotted.

\fBplotL\fR(requires \fBgnuplot\fR be installed): \fBplotL\fR produces 
a realtime view of an \fBmplrs\fR run that uses the command line option "-hist <histogram-file>".
If \fIhistogram-file\fR is not specified \fIhist\fR is the assumed file name.
A PDF file named 
\fI<histogram-file>.pdf\fR is produced. 
The first plot has 3 graphs showing the number of processors working, the size of the job queue L, 
and message requests pending, all versus elapsed time on the x-axis.
The second histogram shows the size of the subtrees explored by producers. 
The root of the subtree is not counted in this size. 
Note that a producer stops after (possibly scaled) maxc nodes are explored, 
but in backtracking some additional leaves may be discovered. 
So the size of the largest subtree may be slightly larger than maxc. 

\fBprojred\fR(requires \fBinedel\fR, \fBcheckpred(1)\fR and
external SMT solver be installed):
simple wrapper for \fBcheckpred(1)\fR that tests and greedily
removes inequalities that are redundant after a projection, without
doing the projection.  Repeatedly calls \fBcheckpred(1)\fR and the
specified SMT solver (\fBz3\fR by default), removing inequalities
determined to be redundant for the given projection.  The output is
produced in \fI[output file]\fR or on standard output if no output file is
specified.  The output file will produce the same projection as the
original input.  Inequalities and projection to test are given as 
options in the input file, see \fBcheckpred(1)\fR for details.

.SS "Notes"
.PP 
User's guide for lrslib
.RS 4
\%http://cgm.cs.mcgill.ca/~avis/C/lrslib/USERGUIDE.html
.RE
.SS Author
David Avis <avis at cs dot mcgill dot ca >
.SS "See Also"
lrs(1), mplrs(1), fel(1), checkpred(1), lrslib(5)

